hey folks this is Terry
it's March 12th and we have a month's
worth of fun updates for you from the
proto school world yeah so let's see
what we have on deck first thing we
wanted to talk about is a new tutorial
so let's say I'll let you go into that
one
yeah so you share my screen so the first
so this tutorial we pulled up from
Alan's workshop in a pee fest camp Lada
last year so this part the name is
otário is anatomy of a CID in this
tutorial we go in-depth into the list
Hattie if the its components in parts we
have six lessons and it is the first
tutorial that actually includes multiple
choice options so with this you can make
sure that you read everything correctly
and then move on to the next one if you
somehow you didn't get it correctly
you'll get some hints about why that is
and then for you to help them and get
the right information we've got some
nice visuals from from the slide decks
from the presentation so you get some
some nice nice information he's played
out and we think for graphics to help
you along the way yeah so this is
exciting and taking into account but now
we have into the world two tutorials
with no coding no coding necessary we
now includes a filter so now you can
toggle out coding tutorials so that you
only see the ones that not require
coming so in this case if you want to
just for example you can even do this on
your mobile if you want just read
through multiple-choice testing and the
other thing that you might have noticed
in that little demo is that this one is
labeled as a multi formats tutorial and
so if you're not familiar with multi
formats and wondering why we took a
course for my PFS camp and it's not
labeled as an IPSS course it's because
multi-format supplies a lot of like
formats of self-describing data or
self-describing
protocols that support a lot of the d
web products that um not just protocol
apps but a lot of the protocol labs ones
so IPF a slim p2p file coin IPL d that
all use multi formats for their CID so
by labeling this as a multi formats
tutorial we did it that way
intentionally so that you can find it if
you're interested in file coin that's
applies to you too and when you're
looking for the specs for the CID you
find them in the multi formats repo
which I'm sure is one of the resources
that's there at the end of that tutorial
so we're sykes to have tutorial for more
than one project and we expect that to
continue in the months to come we hope
to add some basic point explainers
etcetera one of the other things we
should probably highlight is that these
multiple choice lessons they're a lot
easier to build than a coding challenges
so it would be very easy for someone who
didn't have a coding background to set
them up and say you've done a lot of
work to make things even easier under
the hood recently so if you're
interested in building one there's a
template you can use to get started and
it's very easy to figure out where to
copy and paste the right content in to
do that so hopefully get some volunteers
there yeah anything else that you wanted
to share say on you have new content
coming up well tweaked content coming up
yeah so right now we're working on some
updates to the JavaScript library for
our API FS which they recently did some
work around so they can have major
improvements performance improvements
and so the API changed a little bit and
that will reflect along on the tutorials
mainly the misérable file system
tutorial and also the regular files at
the edges order so those two will be
updated in the we're not sure when that
will happen but maybe you most likely
will also add a small message warning so
that you can see that the tutorials been
updated so that if you want to do it
again or see the codes and how the code
has changed so you can be notified as
well if you've done it sort of before so
yeah that's yeah and if you haven't
already heard about the async/await
refactor you can find more about it on
the ipfs blog that's a really good
starting point to get to that
you can learn all about async iterators
if you haven't explored them yet so yeah
what else do we have for you next screen
so I can find out yeah let's talk about
the new community model I will share my
screen for a second
find the right place to do all right so
exciting news on our website you can see
here and new events page where you can
find specific upcoming events in the
past you'd go to a chapter stage and see
the names of the locations of various
chapters click on one of those go to a
github repo poke around there and see if
they had any events coming up but now
you can go straight here and see if
there's anything coming up near you and
you'll notice a few things that are
really helpful here so there's a link
and the person submitting this event for
inclusion on the website determines
whether these things are here but if
this event is hosted by a group like an
IP FS meetup group for example then you
can link to the home page of that group
if it's hosted at a conference like we
had a workshop hosted at web 3 summit in
Berlin and you can see that it's so sad
that event learn more about that event
you'll be able to see which tutorials
are being discussed at that event if you
want to go and look at those in advance
you'll have a link to the code of
conduct for that event and then a link
right to the registration site for that
event so we're really trying to make it
easier for attendees to find upcoming
protal workshops that focus on our
content and then if we I've filled in
some past events that clearly meet our
event guidelines here so you may see
that your some of the events from your
chapters are there and people can look
at those mostly as a way to go and see
how much activity is happening in that
area and then there are of course
instructions on how to host an event
update it on the website but you'll also
see as always that
the organizing repo is still the right
place to go for information on hosting
events so we did a pretty dramatic
overhaul of this page yesterday to
reflect this new model so the real the
really important highlights and the
change to our community need model which
were so heavily influenced by those of
you who took a local leadership survey
are this concept of scalability we
wanted to make it both we wanted to
reduce the burden on existing folks who
were leading groups so we saw for
example that pretty much everyone
hosting a chapter had a an existing
meetup group it might have been an ipfs
meetup group for example that was doing
a variety of content and then they
applied for a chapter which took a
little while to get set up we created
repo for them and then they would
sometimes interspersed our content into
their meetings so they might do three
sessions of someone giving a talk on
ipfs and then at the fourth week they
would present a tutorial for proto
school um in this new model that works
but you it's totally fine to do that and
mix our content in we think that will
still be the most common thing that
people do but the event that that
workshop on that fourth week that you
where you actually teach our content is
the thing that you would refer to as a
proto school workshops and that you
would submit for inclusion on our events
page the groups that host our events or
the individuals who host our events
won't be called chapters moving forward
so we don't have the concept of chapters
but that also opens it up so for example
we had some cities where there were
multiple groups that wanted to host
content and we had been asking them to
work together which made some folks
uncomfortable what we really want to do
is make it possible for as many people
as possible to share our content so we
can have a variety of folks in our
larger city is sharing in other groups
and it's a way to get our content into a
bunch of existing communities that are
out there and also and also have us
surface those communities to the world
right if somebody finds us on the web
they can find you through us and the
you can find us through you so now when
you're figuring out whether to submit an
event you're gonna look at the
guidelines that are right here as well
as on the organizing page so to define
something as a proto school workshop
it's gonna offer someone the chance to
work through one of our tutorials the
ones you find on our tutorials page in
person with support from Mentors
we do still require a code of conduct to
enforce a welcoming and inclusive
environment where everyone feels welcome
and isn't subject to discrimination etc
and there is more guideline if you go to
our resources page I've added some
templates that people can use previously
when we made a chapter for you we were
giving you a template that you could use
if you wanted to so we have something
similar that people can use if it'd like
and then the event should be educational
not commercial or promotional and they
should be not-for-profit so free or low
cost to attend base if you have to cover
your costs of meeting space or something
you could do that but and this is really
much be educational first and foremost
for the events that you pull protocol
workshops so that's those are the
guidelines and if your event needs these
guidelines then you would click here to
add your event to our list and it would
go to this lovely little forum so you're
gonna give us your email address make
sure that you qualify let us know which
specific tutorials you're gonna be
teaching at that event and this is will
also be a good flag for you if you're
not planning on teaching this then it's
not an event that should be on our
website code of conduct URL etc and then
as you go through this forum will ask
you for your city the date etc all of
the information that we need to make
that card that you saw on the events
page and this really fits with a variety
of formats so if you're leading a meetup
group you can incorporate the content in
there if you're going to a conference
like the web 3 summit you could have run
a one-off event at that event if you're
working in a university setting where
you have like a public a student group
that allows visitors in from outside you
can host an event there and so lots of
options and there's
some documentation here on kinda what
happened to the chapter model for right
now we suit we do still have the
chapters page available here so at the
same URL it was but just added a note
that people can now find the upcoming
events quicker by going to our events
page at the end of April we will remove
this page and have it redirect to the
events page so for those of you who have
been leading chapters you're going to
want to go to this community model
update page and think of that as your
transition guide so it's gonna talk
about both what this change means for
learners but also what it means for you
and a few steps you need to take a
little more on when to use the protocol
name
and the fact that you don't need to use
github anymore so that means that we're
also going to be phasing out those
chapter repos that we made for you if
you love the repo as a way to share your
content or communicate with your
attendees through issues etc if github
is working for you our goal isn't to
take it away but it it wasn't serving
anyone for it to live in our
organization so what we'll do is if
you'd like to do that reach out to us by
the end of April and we can transfer the
ownership of the repo to another user or
organization so that you can keep that
somewhere else and use it how you like
and if we don't hear from you by the end
of April then we'll archive your repo
with a note that we're using we're not
using the chapter model anymore this is
historical data and you won't be able to
update that so we'd encourage you if
that's what you want to do to go in and
put a link there to whatever is the best
source for your group if you like to
work from meetup that's great if you put
all your events on Eventbrite that's
great so we're really trying to make it
so you're using the tools that work best
for you and not duplicating your work as
a lot of people were in the past system
um yeah and so you'll continue to find
stuff in our resources repo the other
thing I just want to mention is we now
have a newsletter the only way we have
had to contact our chapter leaders so
far is through github we have a a group
list for them so I can tag in issues but
based on everyone's individual
notification settings you may or may not
get an email when I announce things like
this community change so moving forward
we're gonna use a newsletter and they're
kind of two segments here so if you
don't check this box then the news
you'll get here is about new tutorials
that we've launched our new site
features like that toggle button
anything that's like has a big impact on
users we're not gonna sustain people
here so this is a sign up page that you
could share with your attendees to
encourage them to sign up for our news
um but if you would like to host events
and you want to get news on local
leadership stuff so if we add a new
resource a new slide deck and new tips
on hosting events then we'll send that
out only to the people who have checked
this box for local leadership updates so
please do take the
if you've been running a chapter to go
ahead and fill that out for us so we can
reach you that way so we're really
excited the event that you see on the on
the events page right now is from
someone who hadn't led a chapter in the
past and the other submission we've had
in that event form is from someone else
who hasn't led a chapter in the past so
we already have evidence that this is
really gonna open things up to a lot of
people who are interested in doing this
in a variety of formats so really
excited about the change we hope that
you'll find everything you need in that
transition guide but if you have
questions you can reach us proto school
at protocol day I um yeah so excited
about that just scanning through the
notes to see if we need anything else we
wanted to share today oh one thing I
should mention in this interesting time
we're all going through is that we do
expect the event listings to be light
right now we understand that a lot of
communities are dealing with the corona
virus and not in hosting large events is
not wise in many of those communities so
please do heed the advice of the World
Health Organization your local
authorities situations are very
different place to place so we leave it
in your hands to be sure that you're
only holding events if it's safe to do
so in your community and this system is
here for when you're ready if it's the
summer before your community can host
events we are here for you in the summer
so so let it ride as long as you need to
get your get your social connections
online and then we'll see you then and
you can remind your attendees if you
have a communication path with the folks
who've come to your fest events you can
remind them that that all of our content
is available online and encourage them
to go check it out there you could even
set up some kind of local support system
for answering questions or whatever so
feel free to experiment with stuffin and
tell us what's working online
anything else say that I'm forgetting I
think that's cool all right so lovely to
see you all virtually today and we will
catch you for our update next month take
care bye bye